h1. FlatLady

Rails flat file importation process automation. Flat lady automates the following processes :

1. Map the columns of any given flat file to a denormalized schema understood by your system
2. Validate the integrity of the imported data
3. Run the importation process in the background when asked by the user

it ain't over until the flat_lady signs

h2. Dependencies

 to automate the importation process , flat_lady uses different gems that will need to be included

In config/environment.rb:

	config.gem 'paperclip' 
	config.gem 'state_machine'
	config.gem 'ar-extensions'
	config.gem 'fastercsv'
 
h2. Installation

now that the dependencies are installed, install the plugin:
  
  ruby script/plugins install git@svn.codegenome.com:flat_lady.git

Make sure the development database exists and run the generator:

    ./script/generate flat_lady

A number of files will be created and instructions will be printed.

You may already have some of these files. Don't worry. You'll be asked if you want to overwrite them.

Run the migration:

 rake db:migrate
 
h2. Background worker installation

Flat Lady uses the delayed_jobs plugin to run the importation related jobs in the background. So if it's not installed already, you'll have to install the plugin :
  
    ./script/plugin install git://github.com/tobi/delayed_job.git

for more information on the delayed_job usage, please refer to : http://github.com/tobi/delayed_job/tree/master.

h2. Usage
 
Flat lady enables you to provide an importation interface for any model of your system.

The first step is to define a denormalized schema which will be used as a buffer to validate the data before the importation. 

Exemple :

let's say you want to import contacts from many different csv files, but, in your app, contacts are define as follow :
  
   class Contact < ActiveRecord::Base
      has_many :phone_numbers 

you would start by defining a denormalized (flat) schema for contacts with many phone numbers :

   script/generate import_scaffold contact name:string phone1:string phone2:string phone3:string phone4:string phone5:string  

this will create the scaffold with the required migrations and routes for the ImportedContact model.


  
h2. Fields mapping
  
h2. Dependencies
  
  state_machine
  paperclip
  cucumber
  evil_twin
  ar-extensions

 

h2. Cucumber Features

As your app evolves, you want to know that authentication still works. FlatLady's opinion is that you should test its integration with your app using "Cucumber":http://cukes.info/.

In config/environments/test.rb:

    config.gem 'webrat',
      :version => '= 0.4.4'
    config.gem 'cucumber',
      :version => '= 0.3.0'
    config.gem 'thoughtbot-factory_girl',
      :lib     => 'factory_girl',
      :source  => "http://gems.github.com", 
      :version => '1.2.1'

Vendor the gems:

    rake gems:install RAILS_ENV=test
    rake gems:unpack  RAILS_ENV=test

Don't vendor nokogiri (due to its native extensions):

    rm -rf vendor/gems/nokogiri-1.2.3

Run the Cucumber generator (if you haven't already) and FlatLady's feature generator:

    script/generate cucumber
    script/generate flat_lady_features

All of the files generated should be new with the exception of the features/support/paths.rb file. If you have not modified your paths.rb then you will be okay to replace it with this one. If you need to keep your paths.rb file then add these locations in your paths.rb manually:

    def path_to(page_name)
      case page_name
       ...
      when /the sign up page/i
       new_user_path
      when /the sign in page/i
       new_session_path	
      when /the password reset request page/i
       new_password_path
      ...
    end

h2. Authors

David Fugère, Benjamin Thouret.

h2. Questions?

Ask the "mailing list":http://groups.google.com/group/codegenome-flat_lady_

h2. Suggestions, Bugs, Refactoring?

Fork away and create a "Github Issue":http://github.com/thoughtbot/clearance/issues. Please don't send pull requests.

